ivil Appeal Nos.	FAC
446 449 of 1976.	FAC
Appeals by Special Leave from the judgment and Orders dated.	FAC
14 1338SCI/76 1004 7 4 1969 and 25 1 1972 of the Bombay High Court (Nagpur Bench) In S.T.R. Nos.	FAC
17 to 20 of 1964 and CIVIL APPEAL NOS.	FAC
450453 OF 1976.	FAC
V. p. Raman, Addl.	FAC
General for India, S.B. Wad and M. N Shroff for Appellants in CAs.	FAC
450 to 453/76.	FAC
G.L. Sanghi, A. section Bobde, M.L. Vaidya, V.A. Bobde, A. G. Meneses, J.B. Dadachanji, K.J. John, O.C. Mathur and Ravind er Narain for the Respondents in CAs.	FAC
446 449/76 and Appel lants in (2.	FAC
450 453/76 The Judgment of the Court was delivered by BEG, J.	FAC
The eight appeals before us by special leave arise out of four Sale "Tax References, under Section 23(1) of the Central Provinces and Berar Sales Tax Act, 1947, (hereinafter referred to as 'the Act ').	STA
Five of these were decided by a Division Bench of the Bombay High Court.	FAC
As it answered the main question determining liabili ty to pay the sales tax under the Act against the State, there are four appeals against it by the State.	FAC
The sixth question, which was one of law only, was referred by the Division Bench to a Full Bench, and, this was determined in favour of the State.	FAC
There are, therefore, four appeals by the assessee against the Full Bench decision.	FAC
M/s. Central Provinces Manganese Ore Co. Ltd., the assessee, has its Head Office in London.	FAC
It carries on business on an extensive scale.	FAC
It owns 22 manganese ore mines in Madhya Pradesh from where manganese ore, after being excavated, is sent mostly abroad through different ports.	FAC
The Company is a registered dealer under the Act.	FAC
It used to enter into contracts at places outside Madhya Pradesh for the despatch of what came to be known, in the special parlance of this company 's business, as "Oriental Mixture" But the contracts contain specifications only of strengths of manganese ore to be supplied with permissible percentages of other ingredients as admixtures.	FAC
The term "Oriental Mixture" was evidently employed by the Company itself to describe a particular type of conglomerate which the unloading at one place of Various types of manganese ore produced.	FAC
The required average consistency or strength of manganese ore specified in the contracts, which did not contain a reference to any "Oriental Mixture", was said to be obtained in the course of this mechanical process of transportation when various grades of manganese ore were heaped together.	FAC
These grades of manganese ore were trans ported, in railway wagons, from one or more mines, and, it appears that the order in which trucks were.loaded in goods trains and unloaded was also so,arranged that the mixture came into existence, as described above, in the mere process of unloading at the port.	FAC
1005 But, this procedure did not seem to involve a process of "Manufacture", as that term is ordinarily understood, to which the assessee could be said to have subjected its manganese ore.	FAC
The case of the assessee company was that the "Oriental Mixture" as a taxable commodity came into existence only after the ores got mixed up in the process of unloading and not before so that it could not be taxed as "goods in exist ence" in Madhya Pradesh at the time when ,contracts relating to these goods were made.	FAC
Other questions ,appear to be subsidiary.	Ratio
Nevertheless; we have to consider them 'before coming to the crucial question which is: Is the process described above one of "manufacture" so that a new kind of goods, known as "Oriental Mixture", came into existence at the port where manganese ore trucks were unloaded? As the High Court pointed out, the periods involved in the four references before it were not governed by the provisions of the Constitution.	Ratio
Reference No. 17 of 1964 for the period 1st January, 1947 30th September, 1947.	Ratio
Reference No. 18 of 1964 for the period 1st October, 1947 to 31st December, 1948.	Ratio
Reference No. 19 of 1964 for the period 1st January, 1949 to 31st December, 1949.	Ratio
Reference No. 20 of 1964 for the period 1st January, 1950 to 25th January, 1950.	Ratio
We, therefore, agree with the High Court 's view that Article 286 of the Constitution, which is not retrospective in operation, could not help the assessee merely because it was there at the time of assessment.	Ratio
The next question to be considered, which was referred to the Full Bench, flows from Explanation (II) to Section 2(g) of the Act which was amended by the C.P. & Berar Sale Tax (Amendment) Act No. XVI of 1949, came into force on 11th April, 1949.	Ratio
Hence, the law, as found after the amending Act, could apply, .if valid, only to the last two refer ences.	Ratio
But, the question which arose, on the assumption that the amendment was ineffective, was whether the unamended law could be applied at all after the purported amendment.	Ratio
Section 2(g) of the Act, with its two explanations, before it was amended, may be reproduced here in toto.	STA
It reads as follows: "2(g) 'sale ' with all its grammatical variations and cognate expressions means any transfer of property in goods for cash or deferred payment or other valuable considera tion, including a transfer of property in goods made in course of the execution of a contract, but does not,include a mortgage, hypothecation, charge or pledge: Explanation (I): A transfer of goods on hire purchase or other installment system of pay ment ' shall, notwithstanding 1006 that the seller retains a title to any goods as security for payment of the price, be deemed to be a sale; Explanation (11): Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the Indian , the sale of any goods which are actually in the Central Provinces and Berar at the time when the contract of sale as define in that Act in respect thereof is made, shall wherever the. said contract of sale is made, be deemed for the purpose of this Act to have taken place in the Central Provinces and Berar".	STA
Section 2 of the Amending Act of 1949 provid ed: 2.	STA
In section 2 of the Central Provinces and Berar Sales Tax Act 1947 (hereinafter referred to as the said Act), (a) in clause (g) for Explanation (I1) the following shall be substituted : Explanation (I1) : Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the Indian , the sale or purchase of any goods shall be deemed for the purposes of this Act, to have taken place in this province, wherever the contract of sale or purchase might have been made "(a) if the goods were actually in this province at the time when the contract of sale or purchase in respect thereof was made, or (b) in case the contract was for the sale or purchase of future goods by descrip tion, then, if the goods are actually produced or found in this Province at any time after the contract of sale or purchase in respect thereof was made".	STA
The submission made on behalf of the assessee, which was accepted by the High Court was that, as the amendment did not receive the assent of the Governor General under Section 107 of the Govt.	ARG
of India Act, it was void.	ARG
It was, howev er, also urged, on behalf of the assessee, that a repeal of the previously existing section did not require the assent of the Governor General at all.	ARG
The argument was that the original provision was validly repealed, but, as no substi tution of the new provision could take place, because the assent of the Governor General was not obtained, only the repeal survived.	Ratio
The result of accepting such a submission would be that the substitution will have to be split up into two distinct enactments; firstly, a repeal of the original section 2(g) of the Act; and, secondly, the substitution of the new provision for the repealed one.	Ratio
The assessee 's argument was that two processes, one of repeal and another of substitution, are necessarily implied in such an amend ment as the one before us.	Ratio
It was urged that both had received the assent of the Governor, but, since the substi tuted provision alone required the assent of the Governor General, which was not obtained, a repeal, which was assent ed to by the Governor, stood on its own separate footing.	ARG
Thus, the result was said to be a repeal simpliciter without the enactment of the fresh provision meant to replace it.	Ratio
1007 It was submitted that the High Court, after finding the substituted provisions of section 2(g) of the Act to be invalid, had erred in holding that the repeal was also ineffective.	Ratio
It was contended that such a view resulted in attributing to the legislature an intention contrary to that which it had unmistakably expressed by repealing the una mended provision.	ARG
It was urged that the repeal, which was clearly intended, must be held to be valid.	ARG
assessment periods.	Ratio
Of course, this argument assumes that the repeal and the new ' enactment are separate.	Ratio
In Shriram Gulabdas vs Board of Revenue, Madhya Pradesh & Ant.	PRE
the province, is not ultra vires the Provision Legislature.	PRE
We must make it clear that our answer to this question is in the affirmative, free from considerations arising under Article 286.	Ratio
We have shown that the necessary power to make the unamended Explanation did exist in the State Legisla ture; but we have also made it clear that by virtue ' of Article 286 the Explanation can no longer be enforced because under the present Constitution the sales tax can only be col lected at the market and where the goods are delivered for consumption.	Ratio
We may also state that the amended Explanation II is not validly enacted because it makes drastic changes in the rules as found in the without obtaining the ' assent of the Governor General.	Ratio
The effect of the amended Explanation going out would be to rehabilitate the old Explanation as it existed because the amendment being unconstitutional will fail to work any change in the law (See the opinion given by one of us, Hidayatullah, J., in Laxmibai vs The State (I.L.R. , 608, 610 (F.B.)".	Ratio
No question relating to the enforcement of the Sales tax by any collection to be made after the Constitution came into force was raised the cases before us.	Ratio
This was held to be the correct position in the case of Shriram Gulabdas (Supra).	Ratio
It was also clearly held there that the 'result of the invalidity of the amended explana tion was to leave the law unaltered as it stood before the amendment.	Ratio
We approve of this pronouncement made long ago on this very question.	Ratio
It was urged on behalf of the assessee that the case of Shriram Gulabdas (supra) contained what was merely an obser vation with regard the "rehabilitation" of the preexisting law as that question was no directly under consideration there	ARG
It was also submitted that this observation must be deemed to have been over ruled by subsequent pronouncements of this Court.	ARG
(1) (1952) 3 S.T.C. 343.	ARG
1008 The passage cited above by us occurs in answering the fifth question considered there which was framed as follows: "(v) Whether Explanation II to clause (g) of Section 2, which makes an agreement of sale taxable even though the sale may have taken placed outside the Province, ultra vires of the Provincial Legislature ?" Other questions framed indicate that it was not only the validity of the provision, both before and after its amend ment, which was directly considered and pronounced upon, but the application of the concept of sale under the unamended law and its effects were also under consideration.	Ratio
We think that the view that the unamended law was in operation was not a mere obiter dictum.	Ratio
It was necessary to decide that question before other questions could be determined.	Ratio
We give out own reasons below for accepting the correctness of the view taken then.	Ratio
The following passage was also cited from Koteswar Vittal Kamath V.K. Rangappa Baliga & Co. (at p. 509): "Learned counsel for the respondent, however, urged that the Prohibition Order of 1119 cannot, in any case, be held to have continued after 8th March, 1950, if the prin ciple laid down by this Court in Firm A.T.B. Mehtab Majid & Co. vs State of Madras, (1963) Supp.	Ratio
2 SCR 435 (AIR 1963 SC 928) is applied.	Ratio
In that case, rule 16 of the Madras General Sales Tax (Turnover and Assessment) Rules, 1939, was impugned.	Ratio
The Court held that the ' new Rule 16(2) was invalid because the provisions of that.	Ratio
rule contra vened the provisions of Article 304(a) of the Constitution.	Ratio
Thereupon, it was urged before the Court that, if the impugned rule be held to be invalid, the old Rule 16 gets revived, so that the tax assessed on the basis of that rule will ' be good.	ARG
The Court rejected this submission by holding that : 'Once the old rule has been substituted by the new rule, it ceases to exist and it does not automatically get revived when the new rule is held to be invalid '.	Ratio
On that analogy, it was argued that, if we hold that the Prohibition Order of 1950 was invalid, the previous Prohibition Order of 1119 cannot be held to be revived.	Ratio
This argument ignores the distinction between supersession of a rule, and substitution of a rule.	Ratio
In the case of (1963) Supp. 2 SCR 435 (AIR (supra), the new Rule 16 was substituted for the old Rule 16.	Ratio
The process of substitution consists of two steps.	Ratio
First, the old rule is made to cease to exist, and, next, the new rule is brought into existence in its place.	Ratio
Even if the new rule be in valid, the first step of the (1) ; 509: ; 47.1009 old rule ceasing to exist comes into effect and it was for this reason that the Court held that, on declaration of the new rule as in valid, the old rule could not be held to be revived".	Ratio
In the above mentioned passage, this Court merely explained the argument which was ac cepted in the case of firm A.T.B. Mehtab Majid & Co. vs State of Madras(1).	Ratio
After doing so, it distinguished the facts in Koteswar 's case (supra), relating to an alleged substitution of one Prohibition Order by a subsequent order which was found to be invalid.	Ratio
It recorded its conclusion as follows (at p. 509): "In the case before us, there was no substitution of the Prohibition Order of 1950 for the Prohibition Order of 1119.	Ratio
The Prohibition Order of 1950 was promulgated independ ently of the Prohibition Order of 1119, and because the provisions of law it would have had the effect of making the Prohibition Order of 1119 inoperative if it had been a valid order.	Ratio
If the Prohibition Order of 1950 is found to be void ab initio, it could never make the Prohibition Order of 1119 inopera tive".	Ratio
The argument before us is that since the word "substi tuted" is used in the amending Act of 1949, it necessarily follows that the process embraces two steps.	Ratio
One of repeal and another of the new enactment.	Ratio
But, this argument is basically different from the argument which prevailed in Koteswar 's case (supra) where a distinction was drawn be tween a "substitution" and "supersession".	Ratio
It is true that, as the term substitution was not used there, the old rule was not held to have been repealed.	Ratio
Nevertheless, the real basis of that decision was that what was called supersession was void ab initio so that the law remained what it would have been if no such legislative process had taken place at all.	Ratio
It was held that the void and inoperative legislative process did not affect the validity of the pre existing rule.	Ratio
And, this is precisely what is contended or by the State before us.	Ratio
In the case before us although the word "substitution" is used in the amending Act, yet the whole legislative process termed substitution was itself abortive.	Ratio
of India Act, was lacking.	Ratio
Such ineffectiveness was the very reason why, in the case of Sriram Gulabdas (supra), it was held that the previous law stood unaffected by the attempted legislation called substitution.	Ratio
Moreover, the case of Shriram Gulabdas (supra) is a direct authority on the very provisions now before us.	Ratio
Other cases cited are on very different legislative provisions.	Ratio
We do not think that the word substitution necessarily or always connotes two severable steps, that is to say, one of repeal and another of a fresh enactment even if it implies two steps.	Ratio
Indeed, the natural meaning of the word "substitution" is to indicate that the process cannot be split up into two pieces like this.	Ratio
If the process de scribed as substitution fails, it is totally ineffective so as to leave intact what was sought (1) [1963] Suppl.	Ratio
2 S.C.R. 435. 1010 to be displaced.	Ratio
That seems to us to be the ordinary and natural meaning of the words "shall be substituted".	Ratio
This part could not become effective without the assent of the Governor General.	Ratio
The State Governor 's assent was insuffi cient.	Ratio
It could not be inferred that, what was intended was that, in case the substitution failed or proved ineffective, some repeal, not mentioned at all, was brought about and remained effective so as to create what may be described as a vacuum in the statutory law on the subject matter.	Ratio
Pri marily, the question is one of gathering the intent from the use of words in the enacting provision seen in the light of the procedure gone through.	Ratio
Here, no intention to reveal, without a substitution, is deducible.	Ratio
In other words, there ' could be no repeal if substitution failed.	Ratio
The two were a part and parcel of a single indivisible process and not bits of a disjointed operation.	Ratio
It could not be said that what the Legislature intended.	Ratio
or what the Governor had assented to consisted of a separate repeal and a fresh enactment.	Ratio
The two results were to follow from one and the same effective Legislative process.	Ratio
The process had, therefore, to be so viewed and interpreted.	Ratio
Some help was sought to be derived by the citation of B.N. Tewari vs Union of India & Ors.,(1) and the case of Firm A.T.B. Mehtab Majid & Co vs State of Madras (supra).	PRE
Tewari 's case (supra) related to the substitution of what was described as the "carry forward" rule contained in the departmental instruction which was sought to be substituted by a modified instruction declared invalid by the Court	PRE
It was held that when the rule contained in the modified in struction of 1955 was struck down the rule contained in a displaced instruction did not survive.	PRE
Indeed, one of the arguments there was that the original "carry forward" rule of 1952 was itself void for the very reason for which the "carry forward" rule, contained in the modified instructions of 1955, had been struck down.	Ratio
Such a doctrine applies in a case where a judgment of a Subordinate Court merges in the judgment of the Appellate Court or an order reviewed merges in the order by which the review is granted.	Ratio
Its application to a legislative process may be possible only in cases of valid substitution.	Ratio
The legislative intent and its effect is gathered, inter alia, from the nature of the action of the authority which func tions.	Ratio
It is easier to impute an intention to an executive rule making authority to repeal altogether in any event what is sought to be displaced by another rule.	Ratio
The cases cited were of executive instructions.	Ratio
The procedure for enactment is far more elaborate and formal.	Ratio
A repeal and a displacement of a Legislative provision by a fresh enactment can only take place after that elaborate procedure has been followed in toto.	Ratio
In the case of any rule contained in an executive instruction.	Ratio
(1) ; 1011 on the other hand, the repeal as well as displacement are capable of being achieved and inferred from a bare issue of fresh instructions on the same subject.	Ratio
In Mehtab Majid & Co 's case (supra) a statutory role was held not to have revived after it was sought to be substi tuted by another held to be invalid.	Ratio
This was also a case in which no elaborate legislative procedure was prescribed for a repeal as it is in the case of statutory enactment of statutes by legislatures.	Ratio
In every case, it is a question of intention to be gathered from the language as well as the acts of the rulemaking or legislating authority in.the context in which these occur.	Ratio
A principle of construction contained now in a statutory provision made in England since 1850 has been: "Where an Act passed after 1850 repeals wholly or partially any former enactment and substitutes provision for the enactment repealed, the repealed enactment remains in force until the substituted provisions come into operation".	Ratio
(See: Halsbury 's Laws of England, Third Edn.	Ratio
; Craies on "Statute Law", 6th Edn. p.386).	Ratio
Although, there is no corresponding provision in our General Clauses Acts, yet, it shows that the mere use of words denoting a substitution does not ipso facto or automatically repeal a provision until the provision which is to take its place becomes legally effective.	Ratio
We have, as explained above reached the same conclusion by considering the ordi nary and natural meaning of the term "substitution" when it occurs.	Ratio
without anything else in the language used or in the context of it or in the surrounding facts and circumstances to lead to another inference.	Ratio
It means, ordinarily, that unless the substituted provision is there to take its place, in law and in effect, the pre existing provision continues.	Ratio
There is no question of a "revival".	Ratio
This question of interpretation was referred separately to the Full Bench of the Bombay High Court which drew a distinction between the two meanings of the word "substitut ed"; firstly, where it involved a direction as to what would have to be removed or repealed simultaneously with another as to what was to be substituted, so as to involve two directions and secondly where the "substitution" merely carried one direction to modify .	Ratio
It is difficult to see how a single direction to one direction to modify.	Ratio
It is difficult to see how a single direction to substitute would be effective without implying in it another to remove 'what was to be displaced.	Ratio
Perhaps more simply and correct ly stated, the difference between two meanings of the word "substituted" is one 'where it stands for two separable legislative process and another where it stands for one total or completed legislative procedure, including the assent of the Governor General, which would be covered by the words "shall be substituted".	Ratio
The Full Bench came to the conclusion that, in the context in which the words directing substitution occur, they do not imply that in the event of the failure of the amendment, taken as a whole a repeal would survive.	Ratio
To be able to "Survive" a repeal 1012 had first to come into existence.	Ratio
In the situation before us no repeal came into legal existence.	Ratio
The real question for determination is always one of the meaning of words used in a purported enactment in a particu lar context.	Ratio
We think that the Full Bench of the High Court correctly held that there was no repeal of the existing provision when "substitution", by means of an amendment, failed to be effective.	Ratio
It had also rightly distinguished some of the cases cited before it on the ground that, in those cases, the process for substitution was interpreted to necessarily imply both a repeal and re enactment out of which only the repeal which took place had survived when the re enactment proved abortive.	Ratio
On the question whether the particular goods existed in Madhya Pradesh at all at the time of the contracts, so that the contract could be said to be referable to them, the High Court had observed: " . the question was whether Oriental Mixture was present in the former State of Madhya Pradesh when the contracts of sale in respect of Oriental Mixture were made by the applicant company.	Ratio
On this point, which was purely a question of fact, the decision of the second appellate authority was final and that decision was that Oriental Mixture in the form in which the contracts to sell that commodity were made was present in the State of Madhya Pradesh at the time when those contracts were made.	Ratio
Therefore, that point was not open for decision before the Tribunal and it is not necessary to dilate on the facts relating to that question".	Ratio
It also said: "In Commissioner of Sales Tax, Eastern Division, Nagpur vs Hesenali Adamji & Co. (1959) (10 STC 297), there was no evidence that at the date when the agreement for sale was made, the particular logs delivered there under were in Central Provinces in the shape of logs at all, and a standing tree which was in existence at the date of the agreement of sale and out of which the logs were later on prepared cannot be said to be the form of the commodity in respect of which the agree ment of sale was made.	Ratio
The Tribunal relied on the observations in the Judgment of the Su preme Court at page 310 which are to the effect that the goods must, at the date of the contract, be there in the taxing State in the form in which they are agreed to be sold.	Ratio
In that case, the agreement of sale can be said to be in respect of those goods.	Ratio
Here, as found by the second appellate authority, ore in the form of Oriental Mixture was present in the taxing State when contracts of sale in re spect of Oriental Mixture were made by the Head Office of the applicant company".	Ratio
After giving the findings set out above, on the question whether the. goods existed in the State of Madhya Pradesh when they were sold and, whether the contracts were refera ble to these goods, the High Court 1013 proceeded to consider the question whether "Oriental Mix ture" itself had come into existence in Madhya Pradesh or at the port where the goods forming the "Oriental Mixture" became mixed up in the process of unloading and transporta tion.	Ratio
Apparently, what the High Court had meant by its earlier findings was not that the "Oriental Mixture" was in existence in Madhya Pradesh, but that the ingredients which went into its composition existed in Madhya Pradesh at the time when the contracts were made.	Ratio
It had finally reached the conclusion that the Mixture itself was formed at the port where the ingredients were unloaded.	Ratio
We are unable to accept the High Court 's reasoning that, while the goods which went into the composition of the "Oriental Mixture" existed in Madhya Pradesh when the contracts were made, yet, they were not taxable in Madhya Pradesh because ' the "Oriental Mixture" came into existence at the port.	Ratio
In other words, it held that a mere mixture of goods, even if it occurs in the process of unloading, converts the goods, which existed in Madhya Pradesh and were transported to the port, into separately identifiable commercial commodity Known as "Oriental Mixture".	Ratio
As already mentioned above, this term is not used in the contracts but is a term employed by the firm itself to indicate the specifications contained in the contracts of goods ordered.	Ratio
It is difficult to see what process of manufacture is gone through so as to bring a new category or genus of commercial goods into existence at the port.	Ratio
The High Court had relied on cases where raw tobacco subjected to various processes, such as sprinkling of jag gery juice or water on it and allowing it to ferment for some time before cutting it up and packing it, was held to become a new commodity.	Ratio
These cases were: The State of Madras vs Bell Mark Tobacco Co. C); The State of Madras vs Swasthik Tobacco Factory(2); Anwarkhan Mehboob Co. vs The State of Bombay (Now Maharashtra) & Ors.	Ratio
Reliance was also placed on behalf of the assessee on Shaw Wallace & Co. Ltd. vs The State of Tamil Nadu(4), where it was held that goods were actually subjected to a process of manufacturing when chemical fertilisers and fillers like "China clay", "gypsum", and other ingredients, were mixed at a "mixing works" of a company, by means of shovels, so as to conform to a particular formula.	Ratio
It was held there by this Court that the resulting product was a commercially distinct commodity.	Ratio
Several cases of manure mixtures are referred to in the case.	Ratio
Now, ' in the case of manure mixtures, made out of different ingredients, at a "mixing works", it can per haps be said that a chemical process is gone through.	Ratio
In any case, the product which came into existence was known and sold as a separate commercial commodity in the mar ket.	Ratio
It required a process to be gone through at what were known as mixing works of the company to convert it into that commodity.	Ratio
On the other hand, in the case before us, it seems to us that what has been "manufactured" by the asses see is the same "Oriental Mixture" (1) (1967) 19 S.T.C. 129.	Ratio
(2) (1966) 17 S.T.C. 316.	Ratio
(3) (1960) 11 S.T.C. 698.	Ratio
(4) (1976) 3 S.T.C. 522.	Ratio
1014 only if the term "manufacture" can be employed at all to anything done by the assessee.	Ratio
What is to be determined is whether there has been the manufacture of a new product which has a separate commercially current name in the mar ket.	Ratio
The mere giving of a new name by the seller to what is really the same product is not the "manufacture" of a new product.	Ratio
There is, it appears to us, no new process of the manufacture of goods at all by the assessee before us.	Ratio
Again, cases in which logs of wood were cut in order to convert them into planks [e.g.	Ratio
Shaw Bros & Co. vs The State of West Bengal(1)] could be of no assistance in the case before us.	Ratio
That too could be a process of "manufacture".	Ratio
The High Court had also made a passing reference to Nil giri Ceylon Tea Supplying Co. vs The State of Bombay(2), a case decided by the Bombay High Court, where different brands of tea, purchased in bulk and "without application of any mechanical or chemical process", were mixed so as to conform to a particular mixing formula, but this mixture was held not to constitute a fresh commodity as neither process ing nor alteration of the ingredients of the tea in any manner had taken place.	PRE
We think that the similarity of the process to which goods sold were subjected in this case seems to make the reasoning adopted in this case more prop erly applicable to the cases before us than any other found in other cases mentioned above.	Ratio
The ingredients were not even shown to have got so mixed up as to become inseparable.	Ratio
As already mentioned above, this is a case in which the term "Oriental Mixture" was nothing more than a name given by the appellant company itself to the goods which were in the State of Madhya Pradesh at the relevant time and sent from there specially in order to satisfy the specifications given in the contracts.	Ratio
The goods get mixed up in the process of unloading.	Ratio
The mere fact that the specifications in the contracts are satisfied when they get mixed up is not a good enough ground for holding that a new product has been manufactured.	Ratio
They could no more constitute a new commodity than parts of some machinery sent by its manufacturer to a purchaser outside a State, so that the buyer has to just fit in the various parts together, becomes a new commodity when the parts are fitted in.	Ratio
The mere fitting up of parts or a mixture of goods, without employing any mechanical or chemical process of manufacture, could not, we think, result in a new commod ity.	Ratio
We, therefore, answer the following six questions before the High Court as follows: Q. 1.	Ratio
Was the Tribunal right in holding that, although the assessment order was made after the Constitution of India came into force, Article 286 was thereby not contravened, because such order related to a period prior to 26.1.1950? (1) (1963) 14 S.T.C. 878.	Ratio
(2) (1959) 10 S.T.C. 500. 1015 Ans.	Ratio
Yes, The provisions of Article 286 were not contravened.	Ratio
Was the Tribunal right in holding that Explanation (II) to Section 2(g) as was origi nally embodied in the Sales Tax Act, 1947, got restored on the Statute book because of the unconstitutionality of the substituted Expla nation enacted in the Sales Tax (Amendment) Act, 1949 ? Ans.	Ratio
There is no question of restoration of unamended explanation (II) to Section 2(g) as the purported amendment itself did not take effect.	Ratio
Hence, the unamended provision stood as it was before the attempted amendment.	Ratio
The question framed rests on a misconception that there was something to be restored.	Ratio
As nothing was taken away, nothing was there to be restored.	Ratio
And, there was nothing added or substituted.	Ratio
Does the Tribunal 's decision not contra dict the true meaning of the language "sale of any goods which are actually in the Central Provinces and Berar at the time when the contract of sale as defined in that Act in respect thereof is made", as occuring in Explanation (II) to section 2(g) of the Sales Tax Act, with reference to "in respect thereof" is reference to "specified or ear marked" goods which are actually present in the taxing State when the contracts are made ? Ans.	Ratio
This is a question of fact as to what contracts specify and whether those goods were taxed, on which the finding already recorded are enough to dispose it off against the assessee.	Ratio
In any case, was the Tribunal right in its interpretation, application and use of the provisions of original Explanation (II) to section 2(g) of the Sales Tax Act even as they were ? Ans.	Ratio
Was the Tribunal right in assuming the law to be that the existence of ingredients of ores in the taxing State in question, which were sufficient if and when mixed in the due proportion for yielding different varieties of standard mixtures contracted for by the over seas buyers, was in law enough to attract the tax ? Ans.	Ratio
There is no question of assuming any thing.	Ratio
It was only manganese ore of different grades which was unloaded at the port and gives the name of "Oriental Mixture" because the ingredients got mixed up automati cally in transportation and satisfied certain specifications.	Ratio
No new commodity was produced in this process.	Ratio
Was the Tribunal right in holding that the Sales Tax Authorities had found as a fact that the goods consisting of oriental mixture 1016 were in the Madhya Pradesh State when the contracts in respect of these goods were made ? Ans.	Ratio
Before we part with the case we may observe that the questions could have been much more lucidly and simply and less culmsily stated.	Ratio
The appeals of the assessee company against the decisions of the Full Bench are dismissed.	RPC
The appeals of the State of Maharashtra against the judgment of the Division Bench are allowed.	RPC
Parties will hear their own costs.	RPC
V.P.S. Appeals dismissed.	RPC
